# RecommendationSys

Recommendation systems are a type of ML algorithm that provides user with relevant recommendations. When we search for something anywhere, be it in an app or in our search engine, the recommendation system is used to provide us with relevant results. They use a class of ML algorithms to find out the relevant recommendation for the user. In this project, I will discuss two types of recommendation system namely:

###  Content Based Recommendation System 

Content-based Filtering is a ML-technique that uses similarities in features to make decisions. It is often used in recommendation systems, which are algorithms designed to advertise or recommend things to users based on knowledge accumulated about the user. For example, it is only capable of suggesting a movie which are close to a certain movie.
Also, the system that is not really personal. It doesn't capture the personal tastes and biases of a user. Anyone asking the system for recommendations based on a movie will receive the same recommendations for that movie, regardless of the gender or person.


###  Collaborative Recommendation System 

Collaborative recommendation system is a type of recommendation system that uses the past behavior of users or items to recommend items to users. The recommendations are generated by analyzing the behavior and preferences of multiple users and identifying the patterns and similarities in their preferences.

Collaborative recommendation system can be based on either user-user or item-item similarity. In the user-user similarity approach, recommendations are made to a user based on the preferences of other users who are similar to them. In the item-item similarity approach, recommendations are made based on the similarity between items that a user has previously interacted with and the items that other users have interacted with.
